hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert teachers at e2 language let's
have a look at is reading this is a
super skills we're going to look
particularly what I think is probably
one of the most difficult question types
which is match information it's one of
those question types where you need to
read the entire paragraph and then match
it to a statement okay it's similar to
match headings and it's similar to
there's another one when I forgot anyway
I'll show you
so in IELTS reading there are 11
question types and it's very important
that you understand all of the different
question types multiple choice is pretty
straightforward identifying information
or true false not given is pretty tricky
because there's a sort of logical thing
going on there between the difference of
false and not given same with yes no not
given
there's matching information matching
headings and matching features is the
other one that I was going to say what
we're going to focus on in this class is
the matching information question let me
explain this one to you okay it's a
little bit different the way that I've
formatted my my slides here are like the
computer-delivered
test if you're going to take the
computer-delivered test which you can in
Melbourne Adelaide and now Brisbane I
believe I think it's a good idea to
familiarize yourself with the layout
because it can be pretty confusing on
test day trust me I've done it and I've
taken it and it was confusing
paper-based
test one is also confusing okay let's
have a close look at this so this is
different let's say these are the
questions and this is sort of your
answer sheet here you've got your
paragraphs now there's one two paragraph
let's say if you keep going down there's
three four five six paragraphs okay so
what you're going to do and how you're
going to answer this question is like
this first of all I want you to focus on
one of the paragraphs okay so let's look
at a and what you're going to do is
you're going to look at that column in
the table a
and you're going to tick or cross or
whatever a smiley face whatever you want
into these columns for example this is
where you're going to do it you're going
to read the well what's going on there
let me try that again you're going to
read this okay
you're going to read this then you're
gonna ask yourself the apartment has a
half year lease this is about an
apartment the apartment is a generous
size an inspection can be booked online
the apartment includes on-site parking
the apartment has wooden floors so
that's gonna be one of these so then
you're gonna go okay the apartment has a
half year lease you're gonna put a tick
there okay then you're gonna move to be
right this is B you're gonna read this
paragraph here then you're going to read
these statements these this information
and you're going to decide which one and
maybe for B the apartment includes
on-site parking so you take that that's
how you go about doing this question
type this is how it actually looks like
on the computer delivered test it's a
bit different on the paper-based test
it's a bit more strength well actually
it's not it's still quite confusing
anyway the principle of what you're
going to learn and practice tonight will
apply to both tests we're also going to
do general reading and academic reading
if you're doing academic I want you to
stick around and do the general first
because it's really good practice okay
it's it's effectively the same question
type with somewhat simpler material and
if you're doing the general test I want
you to stick around and do the academic
reading as well it's the same question
type but the materials a little bit more
complex so it's still going to be really
good practice anyway I'm gonna be timing
you and I want you to do as well as you
can let's start with IELTS general
reading it's gonna be good for everybody
I'm gonna give you a couple of minutes
to do this one here by the way down here
it says secure entrance secure entrance
that bottom one it's a bit obscured
you
thirty seconds left
okay we're now going to move to the next
ones you should have got the answers by
now here we go let's do C and D
you
thirty seconds left
okay we're now going to move
and look at the last two advertisements
E and F
you
thirty seconds left
okay all right that's six minutes so
that's a minute per question just let me
have a look
how are you're going here to the dirt
okay is everything okay in zoom can you
just just type in okay into the chat
everything's okay
yeah okay great maybe you're just
writing all your answers down on paper
all right awesome
no problem how did you go out by the way
there were six questions there cool
all right so okay somebody wants the
youtube link there no problem I'll paste
the youtube link into zoom just bear
with me okay I've just pasted the
youtube link into zoom I'm going to turn
off the chat in zoom so you can just
talk to me okay Krishna says I'm
confused about this particular question
type understandably understandably this
one is a real trick both on the computer
and on paper this is a really tricky one
so let's have a look at it general
slightly easier we're going to do
academic next it'll be more difficult
let's go through and look at the answers
here actually no let's go back and do it
from here okay so what we need to do is
we need to firstly understand what's
going on it says look at the six rental
notices a2f ABCDEF for example for which
rental apartment are the following
statements true so here are the
statements the apartment has a half year
lease so what I want to do is I want to
read this statement sorry this
advertisement and I want to see if it
has any information saying anything
about a half-year lease or that the
apartment is a generous size or that an
inspection can be booked online or that
the apartment includes on-site parking
or that the apartment has wooden floors
okay so then what I quickly do is I scan
read a okay
this great recently refurbished
two-bedroom apartment is located on the
first block in a quiet block macula Lee
presented throughout features include
blah blah blah blah blah fine that's the
way you do it then you go here and you
say okay did it mention anything about a
half year lease no did it mention
anything about the apartment being a
generous size no did it mention anything
about an inspection that can be booked
online no did it mention anything about
on-site car parking no did it mention
anything about wooden floors
well it certainly says here timber
floors here it says the apartment has
wooden floors so for a I would have put
across here let's have a look at the
answers and see if I've actually got
that right yeah very good
so if number five should be a the
apartment has wooden floors because in
the advertisement it says here timber
floors this brings us to the first
little trick that you need to understand
which is that there's going to be
synonym in the advertisement they're
going to use two different types of
words that mean the same thing the
statement will say wooden the
advertisement will say timber they mean
the same thing they're saying the same
thing and that's how this part of the
test works cool here we go be well the
apartment that has a half year lease
what's another way to say half year how
about six months because here it says
six month lease here it says the
apartment has a half year lease you need
to look at this vertically be number one
is B and that's what you'd write on your
answer sheet 1b cool let's look at C
well apparently see the apartment is a
generous size have a look at the first
sentence of C this is bathed in natural
light this spacious top floor apartment
spacious and generous size that sounds
pretty good to me that sounds like a
synonym that sounds like number two is C
or you can think about it like there
see is number two right let's have a
look at D the apartment includes on-site
parking well if you look down here at
this little dot point here it says
separate European laundry and a secure
basement car park basement car park
on-site parking
D and number four for D that's the
correct answer there I hope you're doing
well by the way let's see
E well apparently has wooden floorboards
as well because the other thing that you
need to pay attention to is this little
thing here that says you may choose any
letter more than once now we've already
seen one that had wooden floorboards
timber floorboards and now we've seen
another one and we can select it again
here because it says where does it say
oh yeah beautiful timber floors are the
highlight blah blah blah the apartment
has wooden floors so you can do number
five
e number five e that's fine and if the
last one apparently with this apartment
an inspection can be booked online so
it's three air for F 3 because if you
look down here where the little asterisk
is it says to register to inspect please
click virtual tour or book inspection
bla bla bla bla bla an inspection can be
booked online here we've used the noun
and here we've used the the verb form to
inspect an inspection so not quite a
synonym but a different word form there
one two three four five one two three
four five six what was your score out of
6 by the way how many did you get right
four six six five four six six three
five five four five six five five six
four awesome
well done cool that's good now for those
of you who want to stick around and do
the academic reading we're gonna use the
same format I'll explain it again
because I know it's like super confusing
and it took me ages to even think what's
going on here
let's have a look at the academic one
now okay and I'll explain it again this
time I'll use this one to explain it
okay so the way that you want to look at
this is you want to read paragraph a
okay paragraph a is taking part in a hot
chili pepper eating contest might have
some unexpected consequences highlight
doctors the warning comes after a young
man ended up in emergency care with
excruciating ly painful episodic
headaches after eating a Carolina Reaper
the world's hottest chili pepper
okay so effectively what you're asking
yourself is in this paragraph is this
information in in a is this information
in a is this information is this
information in at which of these bits of
information are in here okay that's what
you're effectively finding out so then
what you do is you look down a because
we're looking at a here now it might be
number one it might be number two might
be number three but you need to look
downwards okay which of these bits of
information is here in a I'm going to
give you two minutes to do this I'm
going to speed this up a little bit away
you go I want you to do a B and C please
or yes do a B and C
you
thirty seconds left
all right just before we continue on
somebody asked in YouTube live question
which is a great question is it is that
a - or is it - a for example this is why
this is so confusing because logically
you're thinking okay you want to go with
the letter first because you go from
paragraph to information so whatever it
is a three for example right but
actually on test day on your answer
sheet if you're doing the written test
you have to do then one two three a you
have to reverse it so it's it's it's
it's it doesn't make much sense it makes
sense the other way around to go a three
not three a but you'll work it out on
test day it does make sense with the
answer sheet basically it's always
number first it's always number first
and the letter will come second okay if
you're doing the computer-delivered test
this is exactly what it looks like on
test day and it's extremely confusing
right but it's the same thing anyway
let's have a look at the second part
here will give you another three minutes
actually this one's a bit shorter I'm
just going to give you two minutes to do
this part
you
that's over two minutes how's it looking
on the zoom there okay nice good okay
nice 1 C 2 D 3 a 5b to do ok let's check
the answers now just a word of warning I
wrote this one in about oh I reckon it
took me about an hour and a half maybe a
little less to write this when I alts
right there's it takes them months and I
have a full team and the reason they do
that is because they don't make any
errors right
it's like foolproof now J's ones might
have some errors you may disagree I'm
happy to talk about that anyway I hope
it's been good practice let's have a
look at the answers there may be some
errors in this okay so let's have a look
at these answers
first of all paragraph a taking part in
a hot chili pepper eating contest might
have some unexpected consequences
highlight doctors there warning comes
after blah blah blah so that paragraph a
the information 3 a word of warning from
medical experts I think is the best fit
there so if you've got three a or a
three well done next one let's look at B
his symptoms started immediately after
he had eaten the chili with dry heaves
but he then developed severe neck pain
and crushingly painful headaches each of
which lasted just a few seconds over the
next several days his pain was so severe
that he sought medical a sorry emergency
care and was tested for various
neurological conditions the results of
which all came back negative
the description of the effects of the
chili right in other words the symptoms
so paragraph B connects with number four
so for B right have a look at paragraph
C there have a look at the are CVS only
are CVS there's a reversible cerebral
ves
constriction syndrome is characterized
by have a look at the information there
is it number one the explanation of a
medical term for example that seems
pretty good
I think paragraph C has the information
the explanation of a medical term innit
therefore it's one C cool alright that's
fine
so we're still missing two five and six
and we've got B E and F let's have a
look at these ones so D paragraph D this
is wrong this is wrong I should have
this is wrong this is this is sorry this
is my mistake which I'm about to fix
right now because that one should be a
medical first yes that's better so don't
freak out if you didn't get that one
right that's J's editing skills and the
answer here this makes better sense
let's read the paragraph D it says this
is the first case to be associated with
eating Chili Peppers explain the
author's although they point out that
eating cayenne pepper has been linked to
blah blah blah blah blah d2 a medical
first that makes sense or 2d in other
words let's have a look at E well forget
to forget that little cross up there
that's wrong let's look at e given the
development of symptoms immediately
after exposure to a known vasoactive
substance it is plausible that our
patient had our severe secondary to
carolina reaper write the author's 6 the
acknowledgement of a possible cause it
is plausible that bla bla bla bla bla so
number 6 is e if you've got 6 e you are
doing extremely well the final one
drumroll is and this let me get rid of
this one here because that's in fact
wrong it's actually here the final one
if the man symptoms cleared up by
themselves and a CT scan 5 weeks later
showed that he's a fake
did arteries had returned to their north
normal width that connects to the
information in number five a restoration
of health so in fact it's 5f now before
you decide that that's it you hate Jay
you hate all of this you hate IELTS
reading you know it's so tricky this
stuff it's it's not just the reading
that's tricky it's how they actually set
this stuff out on the paper in order to
test you that is extremely tricky half
the battle is actually understanding
what you're looking at and the other
half of the battle is actually reading
and thinking okay that's the answer
that's the answer but trying to work out
how to fill out these things sometimes
is just whoa actually happened to me on
test day which wasn't good this
particular question and that's why I
wanted to give it to you tonight so yeah
cool
all right just before I go to Q&A and
answer some questions if you guys need
help with your IELTS test
Alice general or IELTS academic check it
out WWE - language comm if you're not a
free member you can sign up for free
right now to get access to some free
practice materials cool that's all I'm
gonna leave it there thank you very much
for coming along and I hope you have a
good evening or afternoon or morning